# Home_Automation_using_IoT
Home automation is gaining popularity nowadays. A smart home automation system is based on ensuring security and making user life easier. It contains a large number of sensors which can control or monitor objects distributed in three-dimensional space. The sensors can be specialized in measuring temperature, humidity, pressure, light, noise, dust air, and so on. Devices in smart home automation was controlled by mobile phone in previous projects but in this project IoT technology is used so things like sensors and devices in home will communicate with each other. IoT is able to support wide range of applications including automation, security, monitoring, entertainment, care for children and elderly. Thus, this project is an effort to seek such improvements having a newly available market product which is more friendly, real time, manageable and time saving. Our systems generally consist of switches and sensors connected to a central hub sometimes called a "gateway" from which the system is interacted via internet. In this project, NodeMCU is used as a "gateway" to bring this project to life because it has a builtin Wi-Fi module. Arduino Mega along with Node MCU is used to receive signal from one part of home, analyze it and then automatically update some other appliances or task in another part of home. 
<br>
The internet of things, or IoT, is a system of interrelated computing devices, mechanical and digital machines, objects, animals or people that are provided with unique identifiers (UIDs) and the ability to transfer data over a network without requiring human-to-human or human-to-computer interaction. Internet of Things (IoT) is creating an environment of convergence in the society. This technology environment brings a paradigm shift in our professional and personal life. As a connected environment, IoT adds customer value and loyalty. Today, IoT is being implemented everywhere which is of human concern like smart city, smart environment, security, smart business process, smart agriculture, home automation and healthcare. A lightbulb that can be switched on using a smartphone app is an IoT device, as is a motion sensor or a smart thermostat in your office or a connected streetlight. An IoT device could be as fluffy as a child's toy or as serious as a driverless truck, or as complicated as a jet engine that's now filled with thousands of sensors collecting and transmitting data. At an even bigger scale, smart cities projects are filling entire regions with sensors to help us understand and control the environment.
